oh yeah ladies and gentlemen today we
have an English lesson with a classic
animated film Shrek so even though it's
been 18 years since the first Shrek was
screened for the first time we can
honestly say and that this amazing movie
and all of its beloved characters never
get old The Adventures of Shrek and his
friend donkey are very humorous because
it's actually parody of many other fairy
tale stories that have been adapted to
film
[Music]
wake up what so that said you'll get to
learn a lot of vocabulary that is
related to these classical stories and
fairy tales that take place in medieval
times plus definitely pay attention
closely to all the pronunciation because
not only when you learn formal and
informal English but you'll also get
some exposure to English and Scottish
accents and if you're new here well
every single week we make fun lessons
like this one to help you understand
fast speaking natives without getting
lost
without missing the jokes and without
subtitles just like Hassan who said that
he has improved every aspect of his
English in the year that he's been
studying along with our lessons and you
can too
all you have to do is hit that subscribe
button and the bell down below so you
don't miss any of our new lessons so are
you ready to laugh and learn with this
awesome movie let's do it hi-yah
if for any reason the winner is
unsuccessful the first runner-up will
take his place and so on and so forth
some of you who may die but it's a
sacrifice I am willing to make
[Applause]
[Music]
let the tournament begin
[Applause]
idiots
oh that's not very nice it's just a
donkey
indeed Knights new plan the one who
kills the ogre will be named champion
how about him could we just settle this
over a paint all right then
[Applause]
if for any reason the winner is
unsuccessful the first runner-up will
take his place and so on and so forth
the runner-up is usually the person who
comes in second place in a competition
for example in the Olympics an athlete
who wins a silver medal can be called a
runner-up the phrase is so on and so
forth are synonyms and are used to
indicate that something continues in a
similar manner
Lord Farquaad says both in order to
emphasize the idea that the mission will
continue until the princess is rescued
in this case as the winner of the
competition will have an extremely
dangerous task which is to rescue
Princess Fiona the chances of death are
very high for this reason if the winner
dies the one who comes second will take
his place and if this person dies as
well the one who came in third will do
it and the same will happen with the
ones that came fourth fifth etc let's
listen again to how Lord Farquaad says
this phrase the first here we have a
good example of connected speech this is
the way that natives linked their words
together up is a preposition which is an
example of a function word these words
reduce and connect to content words like
run or runner so instead of saying
runner up Lord Farquaad says runner up
natives do this all the time let's look
at some more examples of the reduction
of the and connected speech with some TV
series enough I always did you say Mike
could you speak up please
I was just saying to my friend that I
thought you were the most beautiful
woman that I'd ever seen in my life some
of you may die but it's a sacrifice I am
willing to make a sacrifice is a loss or
something you give up usually for the
sake of a better cause example he's the
world's best tennis player but he
sacrificed everything else in his life
for him originally a sacrifice was made
for religious purposes and he usually
consisted in killing an animal or a
person and offering them to a god or
gods example the people offered a lamb
on the altar as a sacrifice for their
sins in this scene the ones that are
fighting are the ones who are willing to
sacrifice themselves and die for the
Lord now this phrase Lord Farquaad used
is a common collocation example I won't
be able to go out with my friends for a
few months but it's a sacrifice I'm
willing to make so I could travel to
Paris this summer
however as Lord Farquaad used it it is
ironic and funny because in fact the
sacrifice will be made by the champion
who dies not by him
[Applause]
[Music]
let the tournament begin a tournament is
a competition in which a series of games
is played and the winners of each game
play against each other until only one
winner is left
[Applause]
oh that's not very nice it's just a
donkey hideous is a word that means
extremely ugly or unattractive you can
use it to refer to a person or an
experience the Lord says hideous refer
to Shrek's appearance as he thinks that
he is extremely ugly
Shrek probably knows this but he really
makes like Farquaad was referring to
donkey or rather than himself and be
Knights
newbomb indeed is a word you can use to
add emphasis to a statement you can also
use it to express that something is
correct example is this your dog it is
indeed Michael made the trip to survey
the land it was indeed beautiful there's
nothing wrong with speaking correctly
indeed there isn't a knight is a man who
served his Lord as a soldier in the
Middle Ages and is trained to fight
usually in a heavy metal armor if you
like Shrek and then I bet you will also
really enjoy all the different lessons
that we've done with Disney movies you
can check out those in this playlist
after you finish this lesson the one who
kills the ogre will be named champion
how about him an ogre is a mythical
figure that is known for being a big
ugly monster in most fairy tales and
myths ogres are shown as giant scary
unintelligent human-like figures that
eat people however even though Shrek is
an ogre he comes off as a smart and
friendly fellow
[Applause]
if someone asks you to hang on that
person is asking you to wait for a short
period of time example hang on I'll be
with you in a moment
hello yeah hang on can I take this
upstairs sure we don't live there but
can we just settle this over the paint
to settle means to reach a decision or
an agreement about something or to end a
disagreement example my father and I
have agreed
finally to settle our differences a pint
is a unit of measurement that equals to
half a liter it's commonly used to refer
to beer now here
Shrek said to settle the quarrel over a
beer if you do something such as talk or
discuss over some sort of beverage you
are doing it while you consume that
beverage for example I don't want to
argue anymore let's talk about it in the
morning over coffee how about we go down
to the cafe and you tell me about your
trip over a hot tea they discuss their
plans for the project over cocktails in
the lounge so in order to avoid fighting
against all the nights shrek is coming
up with an alternative solution which is
to drink a beer and talk about the
problem all right then come on you can
say come on to someone to encourage them
to do something example come on Sally
let's dance
we should get naked
[Applause]
however as used here shrek is using it
to provoke them to attack him example
come on hit me with your best shot
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you thank you very much I'm here
till Thursday
try the veal shall I give the order sir
no people love you luck I give you our
champion
congratulations Olga you've won the
honor of embarking on a great and noble
quest quest I'm already on a quest a
quest to get my swamp back your swamp
yeah my swamp where you dump those
fairytale creatures indeed all right oh
girl I'll make you a deal
go on this quest for me and I'll give
you your swamp back exactly the way it
was down to the last
slime-covered toadstool and the
squatters as good as gone what kind of
quest
[Music]
in professional wrestling only one
competitor per team is allowed in the
ring at a time a wrestler can transfer
the active status to another wrestler of
his team when doing a pompom tag which
resembles a high-five donkey is jokingly
asking Shrek to tag him in order to be
able to participate in the fight
[Applause]
thank you thank you very much I'm here
till Thursday try the veal till is a
contraction of the preposition until and
it means up to the time that example
shouldn't we wait till marks here note
that you can see this written with one
or two else but the meaning is the same
the phrase try the veal is a cliche
sign-off from stand-up comedians in
comedy clubs Trek is playfully joking
with the fact that he provided good
entertainment for the audience and he is
using this phrase as a way of saying
goodbye should I give the order sir
no shell and should are both axillary
burbs but have different usages and
meaning shall is used more informal
English than should although it is
pretty uncommon nowadays in American
English you would refer to someone as
sir in order to be polite or show
respect to someone who is in a position
of authority here as the knight is
talking to the Lord he uses formal
vocabulary I have a better idea
people love your luck I give you our
champion
congratulations over you've won the
honour of embarking on a great and noble
quest quest when you embark on something
you are starting it it usually didn't
know it's excitement and starting it you
might embark on a new career or embark
on a trip to Asia or as in this
situation on an adventure so I would
like to raise my glass to Monica and
Chandler and the beautiful adventure
they are about to embark upon together I
can think of no two people better
prepared for the journey something Noble
is moral in an honest brave and kind way
example his followers believe they are
fighting for a noble cause you shall
discover the site together we should
cast ourselves into the future that was
a noble thing you did back there he
doesn't deserve
well I just didn't think my dad would
have wanted his two best friends to
become achilles a quest is a long search
for something that is hard to find or an
attempt to achieve something difficult
it is about seeking something important
and it often involves a journey example
most conquerors have traveled the world
in a quest for goal we're about to
complete a great quest that began almost
2,000 years ago I didn't come for the
cup of Christ I came to find my father
when that case got be with you in your
quest your father is being held in the
castle of brunwald on the
austrian-german border I'm already on a
quest a quest to get my swamp back a
swamp is a lowland that is seasonally
flooded the land there is very wet and
soft Shrek is seeking to have his swamp
back because his house is there as he is
an ogre
he's very dirty and enjoys mud and for
this reason that this place is perfect
for him your swamp yeah my swamp where
Hugh dumped those fairytale creatures a
dump is a place where trash is stored in
piles this verb used here is often used
when you get rid of someone or something
in a careless way example she dumped her
dirty clothes in the washer it can also
mean to end a romantic relationship with
someone example my boyfriend just dumped
me
he was roommates with John Ross awful he
went out with Andrea Tamborine Oh
she don't tell him for Michaels cloth
did I go to this school no that's gonna
don't me Oh a fairy is a mythical
magical being that is often described as
a tiny human with wings
for example Tinkerbell from Peter Pan is
a fairy a fairy tale is a traditional
story written for children it usually
involves imaginary creatures and magic
some of the most popular fairy tales are
Snow White Sleeping Beauty and
Cinderella or one that we recently did a
lesson on Maleficent in Shrek many fairy
tales live together in the same universe
and the interaction of the different
characters makes it very fun to watch a
creature is a living thing that is not
necessarily human or real for example
there are flying creatures sea creatures
and imaginary creatures like unicorns or
fairies shrek is furious because all of
these magical creatures were moved to
live in his swamp where you dumped those
fairytale creatures by the way we have
another really interesting example of
connected speech here because dump ends
in P we would pronounce it in the simple
past as dumped not dump it however if
you pay attention here we can't hear
that T sound at the end of dumped why do
you think that is so that T sound is
followed by a voiced th sound at the
beginning of those it is quite awkward
for our mouth to make these two sounds
consecutively go ahead and try it it is
impossible to do this without making a
pause between those two words so what do
natives do we simply drop the T sound
thus we can smoothly connect dump and
those in a way that is more comfortable
in our mouths
now try repeating it with shrek where
you dump those fairytale creatures this
is a good example of how you can see the
naturalness and practicality of
connected speech if you learn how to do
this right it can actually make your
speaking more fluid and comfortable if
you would like to be able to understand
more connected speech and even start to
produce it in your
speaking are fluent with friends course
is a great place to start
so in this forty eight week course you
will learn alongside the first two
seasons of the friend series plus every
week you get twenty plus page PDF power
lessons vocabulary memorization software
access to our fluency circle global
community and so much more what are you
waiting for
you can try it for free right now all
you have to do is click up here or down
the description below to learn more and
sign up indeed all right oh girl I'll
make you a deal go on this quest for me
and I'll give you your swamp back a deal
is an agreement on something that
usually involves a mutual benefit of all
parts example the government is ready to
make a deal with opposition how about
this from now until tomorrow afternoon I
do this and then tomorrow night I do
that deal shrek makes a deal with
Farquaad to regain control of his swamp
in return for rescuing Princess Fiona
whom Farquaad intends to marry exactly
the way it was down to the last
slime-covered toadstool down to is
commonly used to refer to something in a
way that includes even the smallest or
least important part example our work
must be accurate down to the last detail
slime is a substance very common to find
in swamps or humid places it is slippery
and gooey if a swimming pool is not
cleaned often enough it will have slime
growing on the bottom a toadstool is a
mushroom
you can use the terms mushroom and
toadstool interchangeably although most
people save toadstool for fairy tales
and also refer to the poisonous ones on
the squatters a squatter is a person who
lives in an empty building or place
without permission shrek wants the
fairytale creatures that are now living
without permission in his swamp to move
out as good as gone by saying as good as
gone Lord Farquaad means that if shrek
fulfills his task he can consider every
squatters already gone something or
someone that is
as gone can be considered to be very
nearly lost departed or deceased example
well it's been only two days and my
salary from last month is as good as
gone the winner is unsuccessful the
first runner-up will take his place and
so on and so forth some of you who may
die but it's a sacrifice I am willing to
make
[Applause]
[Music]
that the tournament begin
[Applause]
[Music]
that's not very nice it's just a donkey
indeed Knights new plan the one who
kills the ogre will be named champion
how about him could we just settle this
over the paint all right then
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you thank you very much I'm here
till Thursday
try the veal shall I give the order sir
no people love your luck I give you our
champion
congratulations Olga you've won the
honour of embarking on a great and noble
quest
[Music]
Qwest I'm already on a quest a quest to
get my swamp back your swamp yeah
nice swamp where you dump those
fairytale creatures
indeed all right oh girl I'll make you a
deal go on this quest for me and I'll
give you your swamp back exactly the way
it was down to the last slime-covered
toadstool and the squatters as good as
gone what kind of quest is it learning
just so much better when you have fun
like you did today well don't stop the
learning now be sure it's at that
subscribe button so that you don't miss
any of our new lessons and check out one
of these other lessons that I know
you're gonna love now it's time to go
beyond the classroom and live your
English oh yeah